# Welcome to my Final Github Portfolio

## Final Statement

### By: Rachel Ker

Before joining the class, digital humanities meant some vague and general label for the combination of technology and humanities in any kind of sense. In my mind, my initial impression was that it was an emerging field as technology became more advanced and our world became increasingly digitized. While these expectations prior to coming into the class were somewhat valid in a broader sense, they did not in-depthly encompass what I had learned digital humanities to actually be. This is because when taking a look at the projects I have completed for this class — my [Printing in Prisons multimedia essay](https://printinginprisons.org/blog/kerr/) and my collaborative [group work on interactivity in the Education Commons](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1v8Kedx1Nap5Yfi9fauiVkdyM3QvyQoVt/view?usp=sharing) — I now understand digital humanities to encompass the preservation of components of humanities such as archival research through the use of digitalization. This could mean taking historic data and creating it into something that is easily accessible and consumable in a digital way or including some digital component. This “digital way” was seen in my Printing in Prisons multimedia essay where I combined a dataset I was interested in and told a narrative surrounding it by using a combination of different forms of media; and a creation including some digital component was seen in my group’s project on interactivity in the Education Commons by selecting a dataset that intrigued us and building a story around it through the creation of a tangible object and using NFCs to tie a digital aspect to it. Because of the trends I found between these two projects, I now better understand what digital humanities is on a more detailed scale.

Simultaneously, my improved understanding aligns with the themes and topics that emerged from our class in our readings at the beginning of the semester to prepare ourselves before implementation of what we learned. For example, through Dan Bouk’s “Stories in the Data” and “Partners” reading, I felt it provided a guiding framework for how I went on to approach my multimedia essay and group project. I say this because it gave me the lens to look at the data from the eyes of a storyteller, when previously, I would have gone into the project feeling overstimulated and unclear about how to go about interpreting so much data. Instead, Bouk’s pieces gave me guidance on finding stories from large datasets. 

Once I found interesting datasets from the data that I felt I could build a narrative around, I needed to figure out how to interpret it using various media methods. A reading that both stood out to me and helped me with this was the *Digital Panopticon*’s “The Ethics of Digital Data on Convict Lives” — specifically the section about “Interpretation.” For instance, when approaching my multimedia essay, I initially interpreted from a lens on interpreting the message the writer was trying to convey through their various moral essays: the dataset I had chosen to take a look at. I was quite literal with interpreting what the writer intended, and I thought about the writer as a regular human being in the context of greater society. However, when I met with Professor Trettien in office hours, she brought up the point of thinking more about the writer in the context of how dire their situation might have been in prison; she advised me to think about the larger institution and the potential censorship that could have happened with the content, urging me to question whether the writer was really writing what they felt or writing only what they were allowed to write. Thus, I was reminded of this particular reading because similar to Bouk, it acted as guidance for how to go about my projects in this class.

Therefore, in overall reflection about the class, some themes or topics I felt emerged was honing the ability to approach large datasets with the eyes of a storyteller, approaching telling these narratives with a sense of empathy towards the context this data was from, and creatively thinking of ways to portray the humanities using different forms of media while implementing digital components that could preserve the data online. As mentioned, my multimedia essay and my collaborative group project on interactivity — which is further reflected upon in my [Education Commons project reflection](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sfdZvwbsL0x5BxjO6w0AVqM10yvuVjln/view?usp=sharing) — allowed me to draw these themes. However, the workshops I attended on Penn’s campus and in Philadelphia pushed me to think more complexly on how digital humanities was reflected in my everyday life. Attending those workshops made me realize that digital humanities might not be reflected in my daily life, but there were ways it could be to bring more awareness to the field and its benefits. This is further expanded upon in my two reflections on a [workshop at Penn](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1n7CdZp3EAuFaBScUjKsl_OfkiagdDYSX/view?usp=sharing) and a [workshop in Philly](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1m9D_IKFnTciTesQEdlgvsMRKeFxTT6Z5/view?usp=sharing). 

This leads me to the context of this class within my own self interests. I feel like this class made me more aware of the opportunities in humanities that Penn has to offer. For example, the jewelry-making class I intended was so fun; I liked being hands-on with creating a tangible product, and it acted as a precursor to my collaborative project in the Education Commons where my group also created a tangible product. I felt like this class gave me a greater appreciation for creating things from scratch with or without technology. Therefore, I would definitely say this class affirmed my interest in the humanities aspects of things, but not necessarily the digital aspects of things given I am not passionate about working with data — although I acknowledge it is a useful skill to have.

Hence, when I reflect on my work, I think I did well with thinking about data from a storyteller’s point of view. This really helped me with looking at data since I usually have no interest in working with the data, but I love telling stories. As a result, it made the process more intriguing than I expected. If I were to revise my projects, I would likely have wanted to find some ways to expand them so that they could be implemented for public use and accessibility. For example, figuring out how to turn my group’s collaborative project into an art installation at the Eastern State Penitentiary. With more time, this would have been interesting to pursue.

All in all, this is a class I would highly recommend people take regardless of their background in the humanities or working with data. I believe both ends of the spectrum within digital humanities is worthy to learn given its applicability in an increasingly digital world.

Check out my "Looking Forward" page:
- [Looking Forward](https://r-ker.github.io/github.io/lookingforward)

